# Reflection
This is the Reflection for Computer Science Signature Work for my time at the University of St. Thomas! In this reflection I will cover three projects that while my not be my best work, have been important to me as a developer and have allowed me to grow and learn. I will go over the three projects in no particular order and touch on what made them so important to me as a developer and my thoughts and opinions of how they turned out, I hope you enjoy!

1. Simple Calculator
   https://github.com/DaltonSchwanke/Simple-Calculator

   This project is a simple calculator that contains basic calculator functions, and it sits on top of a background containing circles of varying size and opacity. The user can click and drag the calculator to any point in the window and enter in expressions finally getting the result by hitting the '=' button. 

   My simple calculator is a simple but fun take on a calculator website. While this one is nothing special this marks the time when I started to appreciate web development and javascript as a whole. I created this as an assignment for the "Creative Coding" course here at St. Thomas and decided to challenge myself, not just by creating a half decent looking calculator, but to also set a more fun background and make it so that the calculator itself was draggable. I did this with the intended thought that it would be of use if someone had another window open on top of the calculator window. While I can say that it still isn't perfect it gave me confidence to create websites and add in some cool features that make websites more interactive and engaging for the end user. 

2. Personal Portfolio.
   https://github.com/DaltonSchwanke/Portfolio
   
   This is my first real attempt at a portfolio website. It is a single page application that contains a nice welcome message, a projects section, experience section, about, and contact. The user can then navigate down the page and view the various projects and experiences via acyclic carousels. At the bottom of the page there is a contact form which the user can enter in their email, and message in order to contact me. Unfortunately due to little directioning from the start this project got messy, I stopped developing it after I found a better way to create a portfolio which started development on December 4, 2024.
   
   While it wasn't my first attempt at a portfolio, it was the first half decent attempt at a portfolio and contained most of the required elements for a website. It taught me a lot about dynamic web pages and element creation within javascript as opposed to having static elements in a html page whether it's a template or not. On top of that it gave me a brief understanding of user authentification, something I perceive to be incredibly useful in some of my other projects. While this definitely isn't my best work it is worth mentioning that there are aspects of this website that's sole purpose was for experimentation. I learned how to layer a web page so that I could add in a animated background. I took time to learn about anchor tags and how to set scroll functions that would allow me to control the user's scrolling capabilities; In this instance, it makes it so that the user moves to the next section and there is true scrolling to any point on the y axis. So while it is sad to say this websites never made it on the web I still appreciate all the things that it taught me that I can use in my coming projects!

3. Theme Builder (With Domain Specific Analysis)
   https://github.com/DaltonSchwanke/Theme-Builder

   Theme Builder (Doesn't have a cool name yet) is a proof of concept website I built that I used to pitch to a group of developers that I work on projects with. In this particular site, users can generate website color themes that are given to them via a API call from a third party website. Once the theme is passed back it will set the page color theme to the one that was returned from the API. User's can then save, like, delete these themes along with add in a title, description and like the theme. There is also functionality to change the styles of the site which as of now will change the fonts used across the site, but the intended use of this is to test out different variations of the colors and styles in order to find one that satisfies the user's preferences. Once the user saves a form it will then be seen on their dashboard page where they can click on a specific theme card which will take them to a page specific to that theme containing more information that wouldn't be found on the card. Some other functionality would be logging in and signing up, and a user must do this in order to proceed to customizing themes.

   Why need Theme Builder? From late 2023 through the beginning 2024 I served as a software development intern at VML, formerly VMLY&R, a marketing agency responsible for everything from super bowl commercials with Creed singing "Higher", to famous yearly Smart Water campaigns starring Zendaya, all the way to running Wendy's Twitter page. Here I worked on internal websites that were used to track our clients marketing capabilities, areas of improvement, and customer data. There were also times that I would have to help plan and engineer microsites that companies would host for short periods of time, and while we had hard style guidelines the vast majority of the time, there were also times we didn't and had to come up with something of our own. It was here I noticed a few issues. Firstly, a serious disconnect, that creatives and web designers don't necessarily have the technical understanding of how to style websites setting harsh requirements for the development team. Secondly that there is ambiguity in some of the guidelines leaving developers guessing how to set some styles, which can be nerve racking when working on a Fortune 500 company's product they paid good money for. And Lastly and most common, web developers and software engineers don't have a great grasp on good design along with UI and UX, I am no exception. One day after pondering this I imagined a website that would erase these issues, it would allow companies to create website style guides in a easy, interactive and user friendly manner, and thus Theme Builder was born. As it sits right now it just is in infancy, allowing the user to create color themes and save them. It also just tells the user the hex values of the theme and allows them to add in a title, description, and URL to a website that utilizes the theme as an example or visual for a point of reference. However, the concept as a whole is a lot more grandiose. Once completed, a user will be able to not just customize the colors of the site, but every aspect of a website. A creative would be able to customize all page elements, everything from button hover effects to body overflow characteristics, and once done add them to a collection that can then be saved to create a complete style guide. For each completed style guide the user would then be able to see the title, description, date saved, liked status, URL for an example if there is one, and then have a comments section which I will touch more on in a bit. Another functionality of the completed style guide page is the ability to download a PDF file containing the style guide content so there someone can download a physical copy if needed, and a CSS file containing the general styles which the user can drop into their project for a seamless experience from style creation to use. Ultimately, users would be able to share and give access to others with the intent that creatives would be able to create style guides in a exciting new way, and then have a developer view it and be able to hit the ground running on development, speeding up development time. On top of that it ensures consistency across all company or organization web applications. No more would developers or organizations need to create a lengthy, tedious text document highlighting all the website do's and don't's. They can host them on Theme Builder where it can be accessed anywhere and by anyone who has permission. If changes need to be changed it can easily be modified and updates the CSS file and style guide in real time as opposed to editing a PDF. Overall my hopes for Theme Builder is that it fills a gap in developer abilities and make them a more efficient programmer.

   While there is nothing special about the proof of concept, it gave me a good deal of confidence in myself as a computer scientist and my own ideas. It made me realize that I now have the skills to take a concept I have whether it's a tool I plan to use myself or for others, I can do it. This project includes many features that are needed to build complete projects from the front to the back, things like user authentication, API requests, and file management. For cycling through the page styles for testing color themes I had to learn how to change the various pages' source for the css stylesheets, I had to learn how to use encryption practices to encrypt user passwords, along with tokens used to ensure user identity when interacting with the website. On top of that this is the first time I've used an API beyond my slight exposure in the Web Developement course at St. Thomas in order to generate a new theme. Having this demo has made me excited to dive into the development of Theme Builder and put it out there not to just for myself but to any other developer who made find it useful. 
